# Java Developement Kit:

Java Developement Kit it is a package provided by the oracle corporation which is used to develop and run java programs.

It consists of developement tools and JRE(java run time environment).

## Developement Tools:

A tools which is used to develop java application are known as Developement Tools.

It is a part of JDK, it consists of several dev tools such as,

1. javac
2. java
3. javap
4. jconsole(javadoc)
5. jps
6. jar
7. jstack
8. jdb

---

## 1. javac:

javac stands for the java compiler it's is a dev tool provided by the jdk to compile the source code into the byte code, that can be executed by the JVM.

**Commands:**

```
javac fileName.java

javac fileName.java fileName2.java

javac *.java

```

Compiler checks for the syntactical errors or mistakes and throws the compile time error if error is not present it generate or rewrite the byte code.

A filename and classname can be different

At compilation we should use the filename

compiler generates a .class file with a name matching with the class.

At the execution time we should use the class name.

**NOTE:** It never recommanded to keep the filename and class name different it will create a ambiguty to map those file.

---

## 2. java:

java dev tool is an a applicatoin launcher that runs compiled class file on the jvm.

This tool launches the jvm which will load the compiled byte code line by line.

This tool starts the JRE to execute a byte code generated by the javac.

It also manages memory, create objects, and thread management.

**Commands:**

```
java className

java className1 className2
// it will only execute the first file inorder to execute/load multiple files we can use the && operators.

java className1 && className2

// we can compile and execute a file at a same time using a command

javac fileName.java && java className

//executing the java file directly without creating the byte code

javac fileName.java

```

---

## 3. javap:

javap stands for byte code disassembler.

It's tools from jdk that reads the compiled class file and displays detailed information about it such as:

- Methods(function)
- Fields(variable)
- Constructor
- Access Modifier
- Blocks(static/Non-Static), etc.

It is mainly used by the developers and learner to understand how the java compiler translates source code into byte code.

**commands:**

- Custom Commands:

```
javap -c ClassName.java
javap -c className

javap -p className.class // to view private members

javap -v className.class // verbose

```

- Build in Commands:

```

javap packageName.className

ex->

javap util.String
javap util.Stack

```

---

## 4. javadoc:


It is command line developement tool present in the jdk.

javadoc stands for the java document generator

It reads java source code and special comments written as /**...*/
called as documentation comment, it automatically generates an html documents for the given source code.

File from which the documents is generated must be declared as "public".

**Commands:**

```
javacdoc fileName.java

javadoc -d FolderName fileName.java
```

